[Music]
twelve things you should never flush
down the toilet
every once in a while we throw something
down the toilet that doesn't really
belong there
are you guilty of this just admit it
among the most unpleasant things that
plumbers have discovered our plastic
bottles bricks and even clothes of
course regular people like you and I
won't try to get rid of their things in
this barbaric way but who would have
thought that even the most harmless
things like dental floss or toilet paper
can end up clogging a pipe before we
reveal the nono list don't miss your
chance to join the global family of
bright ciders just click Subscribe and
ring the notification valve number one
toilet paper
wait what where is it supposed to go
then well there's a lot of debate over
whether or not it's okay to throw toilet
paper down the toilet most experts think
that it doesn't do any harm if you live
in a regular house or an apartment
building however if there is a septic
tank you shouldn't throw anything down
the toilet to clarify a septic tank is a
type of sewage system that's especially
popular in rural areas it's an
underground chamber that's not connected
to a sewage system in other words what
ends up in there is processed there in
different countries people have
different attitudes towards the problem
of toilet paper disposal traveler Matt
Kitson created an entire website where
he tells you about the countries where
you shouldn't do this some of the most
popular tourist destinations where you
aren't supposed to flush toilet paper
usually have either an old sewage system
like Greece Ireland or some rural parts
of Argentina or cultural reasons as to
why you can't dump that paper down the
toilet in Indonesia Ethiopia and the
Maldives
it's more common to wash instead of
wiping as the sewage system simply can't
handle the paper
things are changing in the Maldives now
and it's becoming a more and more
popular tourist destination one example
of a faraway an exotic location that can
boast great plumbing and water pressure
is Australia number 2 dental floss
dental floss may seem harmless when it
comes to dumping it down the toilet
however it is made of fibrous material
which is why it can pile up inside pipes
and form clogs when you flush it it
turns into a net that can catch other
objects in the system it can even wrap
around the motor of your septic system
and ruin it imagine all the costs you'd
have to bear getting it fixed also
throwing dental floss down the toilet is
not eco-friendly at all synthetic fiber
doesn't decompose and it harms the
environment number 3 chewing gum have
you ever heard that it takes chewing up
seven years to get out of your stomach
after you swallow it
well that myth was debunked long ago but
there's definitely something to it
chewing gum doesn't dissolve in water
and it can also stick to pipes and form
a clog this is why you should never get
rid of gum this way don't stick it under
your desk either wrap it in scrap paper
or junk mail and toss it in the trash
bin number four fish we aren't talking
about your attempts to hide the evidence
of your culinary disaster by getting rid
of burnt salmon it's all about the fish
people keep as pets no matter how well
you take care of them fish tend to get
sick and eventually die what's the most
humane way to get rid of them according
to many owners it seems to be a really
common situation that dead fish are
thrown down the toilet however this is
not a good idea at all as the dead
bodies can block the pipes in Canada the
authorities have asked citizens not to
throw a live fish down the toilet
because when they eventually reach a
pond they kill the local fish the same
situation is a big issue in Australia
where native fish become infected by
exotic aquarium species that get into
the water instead of flushing sick or
dead fish bury
the compost heap or euthanize them at
the vet's office number five band-aids a
regular band-aid that covers your battle
wounds so well is made of a lot of
different things fats wax rubber and
other ingredients such a cocktail
obviously doesn't dissolve in water and
can clog the pipes in your house number
six contact lenses when we told you
people dumped all kinds of things down
the toilet we really meant all kinds of
things like contacts for example they
might seem tiny and therefore harmless
but in fact contact lenses are made of
polymers that don't decompose for many
years of course a tiny lens probably
won't block a pipe but it will
definitely harm the environment experts
have calculated that every year more
than 20 tons of contact lenses end up in
the sewers contaminating the water some
major contacts manufacturer Bausch and
Lomb for instance have a lenses
recycling program you can drop off your
used contacts at a doctor's office or
send them directly to the company number
7 cat feces the sewage system is
supposed to help us get rid of feces and
cat feces are no exception however
experts don't recommend throwing away
cat litter after a few hours the litter
will solidify and get stuck somewhere in
the pipe a much better solution to get
rid of cat litter is to throw it away
along with the rest of your trash number
8 chlorine bleach I know I know you want
to keep your house clean and shiny and
your toilet is no exception
however pouring chlorine bleach in it
won't do it any good
chlorine based detergents are very
aggressive so aggressive that they can
damage the pipes if you use them too
often if you have a septic system bleach
will also harm it by killing the
bacteria it needs to function properly
in fact you don't need to wash your
toilet everyday using such detergents
you can use vinegar instead
number nine facemasks would you dump
clay down the toilet no then don't be
surprised at a face mask with the same
component doesn't belong there either
clay based face mask should not be
washed down the toilet the small
particles will eventually pile up on the
inside of the pipes and create a huge
clog the upper layer of the mask should
be removed with a piece of cloth and the
rest of the small particles can be
washed off with water
number 10 tea leaves despite the fact
that tea leaves seem small and
completely harmless they're actually not
over time tea leaves pile up inside the
pipes and form clogs that are very hard
to remove number 11 plastic bags even
the smallest pieces of plastic bags can
be dangerous they form clogs and of
course they are really dangerous to the
environment do you know how much plastic
gets in the oceans every year a lot well
it's 8 million tons and that's not good
at all some of it gets into the water
from ships and beaches some is carried
by rivers and a good portion is the
product of toilet flushing you don't
want to contribute to that do you number
products that say you can throw them
down the toilet the information on the
pact saying that toilet paper is safe to
flush down the toilet is most of the
time just a marketing ploy in fact such
paper takes several hours to dissolve
which is more than enough time to form a
clog
there is a simple way to find out if
toilet paper will dissolve put pieces of
toilet paper into a glass of cold water
if you still see big pieces 5 to 10
minutes later it means that you can't
throw this toilet paper into the toilet
but if the pieces are almost impossible
to notice it means that you can believe
the manufacturer
confession time do you throw any of
these things down the toilet have you
ever had any trouble tell us in the
comments below don't forget to give us a
like and click subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life